March Newsletter (#1690)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: _posts/newsletters/2025-03-28-newsletter.md

In addition to the above, we've been working on a number of other efforts. These include:
* Collaborating with our USRSE'25 Conference Chairs in support of our annual fall conference.
* Acting on updates from our Executive Director about ongoing work with ONet, fundraising, and our Organizational Membership program. 
* Defining and documenting processes for governance and administration of the US-RSE organization to ensure smooth transitions of responsibilities in the future.
* Hiring a part-time student to take over some administrative tasks, including compiling this newsletter!

--------

<a name="community-funds"></a>
# **3. Community and Travel Funds program**
**Next Application Deadline:** March 31, 2025

*Part of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant for US-RSE has been delegated for the [Community and Travel Funds program](https://us-rse.org/funds-and-awards/). Members of US-RSE can apply for funds for community or individual purposes for event costs, get-togethers, travel funding, and more.*

> Recently, Dr. Daniel Katz received funding to attend the [deRSE25 conference](https://us-rse.org/usrse25/participate/) in Germany. He presented a talk and a poster, and you can read more about his experience in this [Community and Travel Funds report](https://us-rse.org/2025-03-28-katz-community-travel-funds-report.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, Dr. Daniel Katz received funding to attend the [deRSE25 conference](https://events.hifis.net/e/derse25) in Germany. He presented a talk and a poster, and you can read more about his experience in this [Community and Travel Funds report](https://us-rse.org/2025-03-28-katz-community-travel-funds-report.md).
```

<a name="capitol-hill"></a>
### **Our Executive Director Sandra Gesing was at Capitol Hill!**

> This week, I had the opportunity to visit Capitol Hill for a series of energizing and insightful meetings with congressional staff. The atmosphere was buzzing—with long lines to get into the buildings and not much seating beyond the occasional restroom bench! I met with staff members from the offices of Senator Adam Schiff, Senator Richard Durbin, Representative John Garamendi, Representative Mike Thompson, and Representative Ken Calvert. We had thoughtful conversations about the critical role of workforce development, nonprofit organizations’ impact, and Research Software Engineers’ growing importance. It was a great first step in getting US-RSE on their radar.

— [Sandra](https://us-rse.org/about/staff/)

<a name="peer-news"></a>
### **Celebrating Our Peers**

This month, we're celebrating Dr. Daniel Katz!
In addition to his mouthful of a title as — deep breath —
Chief Scientist, NCSA & Research Associate Professor, 
Siebel School of Computing and Data Science & Research Associate Professor, School of Information Sciences (iSchool), University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (phew!),

> Dr. Katz was this month selected as a [2025 *HPCwire Person to Watch*](https://www.hpcwire.com/people-to-watch-2025/). This program recognizes HPC professionals who play leading roles in driving innovation within their particular fields, making significant contributions to society as a whole.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dan was selected as a [2025 *HPCwire Person to Watch*](https://www.hpcwire.com/people-to-watch-2025/). This program recognizes HPC professionals who play leading roles in driving innovation within their particular fields, making significant contributions to society as a whole.
```

2025 is an exciting year for HPC; the growing virtuous cycle of HPC acceleration due to the convergence of AI, Big Data, Quantum Computing, and HPC is opening new vistas for research and discovery breakthroughs. HPCwire's *12 People to Watch* are at the forefront of these trends, adapting new technology to our rapidly-changing world in order to unlock the answers to the biggest societal challenges of our time and make the impossible, possible.

> You can read the full announcement and an in-depth interview with Dr. Katz by HPCwire [on the HPCwire website](https://www.hpcwire.com/people-to-watch-2025-daniel-katz/). Congratulations, Daniel, on this illustrious shout out!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read the full announcement and an in-depth interview with Dr. Katz by HPCwire [on the HPCwire website](https://www.hpcwire.com/people-to-watch-2025-daniel-katz/). Congratulations, Dan, on this illustrious shout out!
```

3. **[Teaching Assistant Professor - Computational Life Sciences](https://apply.interfolio.com/157209)**: Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ Posted: Dec 02, 2024  

### Other Job Boards

The following boards might also be of interest.

1.  [Research Software Engineering Opportunities in other associations/societies](https://researchsoftware.org/jobs.html)
2.  [Software Carpentries Job Opportunities](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/opportunities)
3.  [Academic Data Science Alliance Jobs](https://academicdatascience.org/jobs)
4.  [High Performance Computing (HPC) Jobs from hpc.social](https://hpc.social/jobs/)

### Have an RSE-related job posting?

Please read our [job posting policy](/jobs/policy/) first, then fill out this [Google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfYK64R1c0rj-ERldGLxuqedLIbsYPZXj9uBplDRYNmnND10Q/viewform?usp=sf_link) to request additions to the job board.

**This newsletter is a joint effort of members of the US-RSE Association.**

> © US-RSE • 2021-2024 • US-RSE is a fiscally sponsored project of [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/), a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
© US-RSE • 2021-2025 • US-RSE is a fiscally sponsored project of [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/), a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization.
```
